---
layout: post
title: 10-03-2016 Check-In
comments: true
permalink: 10032016-check-in
tags:
  - daily
  - creation
  - consumption
---

&nbsp;

Creating vs Consuming

Both terms can be found in economics but that is not the creation or consumption that I am seeking to write about here.  Artists create art and often consume it.  Software developers are similar.

As a developer, it is often a balance between creating code versus consuming code.  We have to consume legacy
code in order to fix defects or add features.  Often I hear chatter that adding unit tests to a legacy code base 
doesn't create business value.  This is the farthest from the truth.  It protects the business from value erosion of 
it's present codebase now and in the future.  Furthermore it assists developers in adding confidence in their changes for the latest and greatest thing.

I have often phrases that goes as follows,

  * Measure twice, cut once

In software development, our mistakes while not in a production environment are more forgiving.  Once though this code reaches an environment where it requires support, that phrase fits well.

Observations from the software trenches:

  * Tests are always worth it.

  * Tests are different sizes (unit, integration, etc).

  * Documentation will go out of date but your tests won't.

  * Never ignore failing tests.

  * Code check-ins should be built by an automated system.

  * Test plans before beginning a greenfield project seem to be hit and miss in terms of value provided.  This is due to many facets of the component not being fully known yet.

  * It's easy to deploy routinely to a development or QA environment but production environments aren't as forgiving.

  * Never sacrifice performance testing your application.  Answer the question of how will it scale.

  * Always version APIs and plan for backwards compatibility always.  You don't want to be that person that just broke everyone's stuff.....you will be so popular.

  * Your code is not someone else's problem once its shipped.  You will often have to support it.

  * Having an owners file in each directory of a large codebase is awesome.  It makes it easier to submit pull requests to people that know what you are working on.

  * Always do code reviews.  You will be surprised by the issues that it catches.

  * Use a style guide.  You don't want to be focusing your cognitive capital on stylistic issues.

  * If you are created an API, have you considered all of the use cases?  Have you considered how it works in a multi-threaded environment?

  * Does your appliation have metrics?

  * Does your application have useful logging?

  * Do you clearly know what feature or defect you are even working on?  If not, it is a good idea to fix that before starting.

  * If a person on your team suddenly dies/leave/whatever, would your team enter a scramble to figure out how something works?  If so consider knowledge transfer sessions with this person(s).  Buy them lunch, beer, or whatever it takes to make this transfer happen.  This is painful from experience.

  * Does your manager interact with your team?

  * Maintain a reasonable pace to avoid burnout.  If the pace is unmaintainable then escalate the issue to management for more resources.

  End brain dump

