---
layout: post
title: 09-22-2016 Check-In
comments: true
permalink: 09222016-check-in
tags:
  - daily
  - learning
---

<div><!-- <a href="https://twitter.com/share" class="twitter-share-button" data-via="__shenderson__">Tweet</a> --><a class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="false" href="https://twitter.com/__shenderson__">Follow @__shenderson__</a> <script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script', 'twitter-wjs');</script></div>

<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");</script>

&nbsp;

#FAIL

I spent most of the day dealing with fallout of someone pushing out breaking changes to a microservice.  There is something to be said for medium sized tests that test for this kind of breaking change.  It was basically the equivalent of changing a REST endpoint from:

	GET /foo?bar=1
	{
		"thing": 1	
	}

to

	GET /foo?bar=1&parameter=lame_default_value_that_old_consumers_are_expected_to_pass
	{
		"thing": 1,
		"lame_default_value_that_old_consumers_are_expected_to_pass": "default"
	}

Great value add, eh?  Did I forget to mention that the former endpoint no longer functions (backwards compatibility, who needs that).  Never do this unless you really want an entire team to hate you.

Learning:

  * I learned about modes of thinking (focused, diffuse) in the Coursera [Learning How to Learn](https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn) course along with some introduction to memory items.  This has been interesting so far and recommend others come on board for the ride.

  * Consumed yet more CppCon presentation materials....long weekend ahead!